---
layout: post
title: "YAML is pretty cool, but..."
date: 2013-12-05 15:00:00
categories: concepts
---
I've been interested in [YAML](http://yaml.org/) lately; I think it's a cool way to intuitively model flexible, relational data structures. However, I think it has one main limitation; specifically, it can only reference records within the currently loaded document. [The Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) gives the following example:

{% highlight yaml %}
    ---
    receipt:     Oz-Ware Purchase Invoice
    date:        2012-08-06
    customer:
        given:   Dorothy
        family:  Gale
    
    items:
        - part_no:   A4786
          descrip:   Water Bucket (Filled)
          price:     1.47
          quantity:  4

        - part_no:   E1628
          descrip:   High Heeled "Ruby" Slippers
          size:      8
          price:     100.27
          quantity:  1

    bill-to:  &id001
        street: |
                123 Tornado Alley
                Suite 16
        city:   East Centerville
        state:  KS

    ship-to:  *id001

    specialDelivery:  >
        Follow the Yellow Brick
        Road to the Emerald City.
        Pay no attention to the
        man behind the curtain.
    ...
{% endhighlight %}

This is fine for a small example like this, but say we had a huge database we wanted to iterate through. In this instance, it would be very useful to be able to have external references.

#Enter ENAML
The YAML specification leaves alone the asperand `@` and the humble yet powerful backtick ` for future improvements. What if we used these for outside references? I think the asperand would work fantastically for this, as it sort of implies a location.

    merchant: Oz-Ware
    customers:
        - name: Dorothy Gale
          details: @/api/customers?id=dgale
        - name: Tin Man
          details: @/api/customers?id=tman
        - name: Cowardly Lion
          details: @/api/customers?id=clion

This would be a super-slick way of managing large data sets from a browser-based client, and I can imagine that it would feel amazing to use a library that handled this transparently.

Even if YAML does not want to implement this, the syntax could be forked into another data syntax. I propose the name ENAML (Extended Network yAML) for it.

If we really wanted to get crazy, we could use the backtick to dynamically generate these API calls:

    merchant: Oz-Ware
    customers:
        `details`: @api/customers?id={id}
        - name: Dorothy Gale
          id: dgale
        - name: Tin Man
          id: tman
        - name: Cowardly Lion
          id: clion

In addition, the `...` syntax that signals streaming could be amended to let the client know how to get the next page of data:

    merchant: Oz-Ware
    customers:
        `details`: @api/customers?id={id}
        - name: Dorothy Gale
          id: dgale
        - name: Tin Man
          id: tman
        - name: Cowardly Lion
          id: clion
    ...@/api/customers/list?n=3

Just an idea that I wanted to put out there. This would make it quite fun to manage massive datasets.

